READING LIST — [s-a75ff1-b]: flip the consumers, delete requirements.txt
Written 2026-09-22 against main at bdc7f11. If main has moved much, regenerate it.
Reading cost: about 8,500 tokens, two thirds of which is the planning docs.


THE ONE RULE

  This leg changes who reads the dependency list. It changes no package version.
  If you find yourself re-locking, upgrading, or editing the constraint block in
  pyproject.toml, stop. That is leg c.


BEFORE YOU START

  Run these four. If one comes back wrong, say which and stop.

    git log --oneline -1         bdc7f11, or a later commit on main
    git status --porcelain       empty
    docker info                  daemon up; the build and the probe both need it
    ls backend/.env              missing, today, on this machine

  backend/.env has to exist before the container run. It is gitignored, so it gets
  made by hand from backend/.env.example, and it must carry the dev
  DATABASE_PUBLIC_URL. If you cannot tell which database a value points at, ask.

  Two settings live in the Railway dashboard rather than in this repo: the
  healthcheck path and the builder. The sprint file's first prework block says what
  they are and why. Ask whether they are done before you push commit 2.

  Measured here on 2026-09-22, so you do not have to rebuild an old commit to get it:

    the current image is 355MB, built from bdc7f11, tagged ap:pre-legb
    its largest layer is `pip install -r requirements.txt` at 113MB — the layer
      you are replacing
    the apt line (libxml2, libxslt1.1) is 4.37MB of it, which is one reason to
      leave it alone

  355MB is the number the size done-when compares against. Drop the image when you
  are finished with it: docker rmi ap:pre-legb


WHAT YOU ARE DOING

  Four commits, in this order:

    1  uv python pin 3.12             writes backend/.python-version
    2  the Dockerfile                 installs from pyproject + uv.lock, dev group out
    3  the README                     Quick Start stops telling people to use pip
    4  git rm backend/requirements.txt

  The order is the consumer graph: the image, then the humans, then the file both
  of them named. Commit 2 is the one that deploys.


READ THIS

  docs/sprints/remaining/sprint-a75ff1-backend-dependencies.md      all 252 lines

    Lines 92-195 are leg b, and they are the spec: two prework blocks, ten
    done-when items, four commits, five Watches. Read the Watches twice. They
    carry what earlier sessions already worked out about PATH, the interpreter,
    image size, the ignore rules and the deploy, and each one exists because
    something went wrong or nearly did.

    Lines 19-91 are leg a: what happened last time, including the commit that
    broke the Railway deploy. Lines 196-252 are legs c and d, which tell you what
    is not yours.

  docs/decisions/adr-018-uv-for-backend-dependencies.md             all 25 lines

    Why uv, why the legs are cut where they are, and the update of 2026-09-21 that
    settles the interpreter at 3.12.

  docs/decisions/adr-021-planning-system.md                         these sections

    Vocabulary, including the Landed, Checklist marks and Entry gate paragraphs
    Referring to a sprint
    Tags in source
    Reading lists
    Run a sprint
    Hand off a leg
    Housekeeping and tech debt, plus the ID rule in IDs and file names

    Skip the rest. Planning, closing, ordering and the migration record belong to
    whoever plans and closes, which is not this session.

  Files you will edit:

    Dockerfile                36 lines. Stage 2 is the target; stage 1 is Node and
                              is not yours.
    README.md                 lines 86-113 only: the venv and pip block, and the
                              paragraph about the generated file. Tests and Checks
                              below them stay as they are.
    .dockerignore             line 34 carries this leg's cleanup marker. The marker
                              and its note go. The **/.venv and **/venv rules stay.
    .gitattributes            one clause of the opening comment names the file.
    backend/.python-version   does not exist yet; commit 1 writes it.

  Files you read but do not edit:

    start.sh                  8 lines. PATH inside the image is its contract.
    backend/pyproject.toml    105 lines. Lines 48-100 belong to leg c.


DO NOT READ

  backend/uv.lock             893 lines of generated resolution. If you need to
                              know what resolved, run `uv tree --depth 1` from
                              backend/ instead of opening it.
  backend/requirements.txt    generated, and deleted by commit 4. The only fact in
                              it is the uv export line in its header, and that dies
                              with the file. Named here because the usual rule is to
                              read what you delete.
  backend/scripts/dep_freeze.py and backend/tests/test_dep_freeze.py — leg c's.

  If you think you need something that is not on this list, ask, and say what
  question you are trying to answer. Do not open it first and mention it after.


WHAT THIS LIST CANNOT SEE

  Whether the Railway prework happened. That is dashboard state.

  Whether uv pulls its own Python into the image. Only the build log says so, and
  it says it once.

  What the plan left open on purpose: how uv gets into the image, one build stage
  or two, the layer order. The Watches give you the constraints. The shape is
  yours, and what you decide is worth a line in the sprint file.

  A rule this leg needs that no document cites. This list was assembled by reading,
  so it names what one reader noticed.


WHEN YOU ARE DONE

  ADR-021's "Hand off a leg" is the checklist. In this leg's terms: check the ten
  done-when items at the code rather than at the plan, write the leg's Landed note
  in the sprint file, record the handoff date, file anything the leg shed into
  housekeeping.md or techdebt.md with a generated ID, and confirm that
  `git grep 'SPRINT-a75ff1-b'` comes back empty.
